Collections docs (#934)
huggingface/hub-docs: docs/hub/collections.md

# Collections

Use Collections to group repositories from the Hub (Models, Datasets, Spaces and Papers) on a dedicated page.

Collections have many use cases:

- Highlight specific repositories on your personal or organization profile.
- Separate key repositories from others for your profile visitors.
- Showcase and share a complete project with its paper(s), dataset(s), model(s) and Space(s).
- Bookmark things you find on the Hub in categories.

> - Have a dedicated page of relevant things to share with others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have a dedicated page of curated things to share with others.
```

> This is just a list of possible uses, but remember that collections are just a way of grouping things together, so use them however you like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is just a list of possible uses, but remember that collections are just a way of grouping things together, so use them in the way that best fits your use case.
```

## Creating a new collection

There are several ways to create a collection:

- For personal collections: Use the **+ New** button on your logged-in homepage (1).
- For organization collections: Use the **+ New** button available on organizations page (2).

It's also possible to create a collection on the fly at the moment adding the first item from a repository page, select **+ Create new collection** from the dropdown menu (3).
You'll need to enter a title and short description for your collection to be created.

## Adding items to a collection

There are 2 ways to add items to a collection.

- From any repository page: Use the context menu available on any repository page then select **Add to collection** to add it to a collection (1).
- From the collection page: If you know the name of the repository you want to add, use the **+ add to collection** option in the right-hand menu (2).

It's possible to add external repositories to your collections, not just your own.

## Collaborating on collections

> organization collections are a great way to build collections together. Any member of the organization can add, edit and remove items from the collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Organization collections are a great way to build collections together. Any member of the organization can add, edit and remove items from the collection.
```

Use the **history feature** to keep track of who has edited the collection.

## Collection options

### Collection visibility

> **Public collections appear at the top of your profile or organization page and can be viewed by anyone. The first 3 items in each collection are visible directly in the collection preview, to see more the user must click to go to the collection page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Public collections appear at the top of your profile or organization page and can be viewed by anyone. The first 3 items in each collection are visible directly in the collection preview. To see more, the user must click to go to the collection page.
```

> Set your collection to **private\*\* if you don't want it to be accessible via its URL (it will not be displayed on your profile/organization page). For organizations, private collections are only available to members of the organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set your collection to **private** if you don't want it to be accessible via its URL (it will not be displayed on your profile/organization page). For organizations, private collections are only available to members of the organization.
```

> ### Sorting your collection(s) and theirs items

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sorting your collection(s) and their items
```

> You can use the sort handles in the collections list (on the left side of your collections page) to change the order of your collections, the first 2 collections will be directly visible on your profile/organization pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the sort handles in the collections list (on the left side of your collections page) to change the order of your collections. The first two collections will be directly visible on your profile/organization pages.
```

# Collections

Use Collections to group repositories from the Hub (Models, Datasets, Spaces and Papers) on a dedicated page.

> ![Collection page](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/collections/collection-intro.webp)

Author: Or adding it to https://moon-ci-docs.huggingface.co/docs/hub/pr_934/en/collections#collection-visibility

Collections have many use cases:

- Highlight specific repositories on your personal or organization profile.
- Separate key repositories from others for your profile visitors.
- Showcase and share a complete project with its paper(s), dataset(s), model(s) and Space(s).
- Bookmark things you find on the Hub in categories.
- Have a dedicated page of curated things to share with others.

This is just a list of possible uses, but remember that collections are just a way of grouping things together, so use them in the way that best fits your use case.

## Creating a new collection

There are several ways to create a collection:

- For personal collections: Use the **+ New** button on your logged-in homepage (1).
- For organization collections: Use the **+ New** button available on organizations page (2).

> ![New collection](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/collections/collection-new.webp)

Reviewer 2: this one is perfect

![Add items to collections](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/collections/collection-add.webp)

It's possible to add external repositories to your collections, not just your own.

## Collaborating on collections

Organization collections are a great way to build collections together. Any member of the organization can add, edit and remove items from the collection.
Use the **history feature** to keep track of who has edited the collection.

![Collection history](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/collections/collection-history.webp)

## Collection options

### Collection visibility

**Public** collections appear at the top of your profile or organization page and can be viewed by anyone. The first 3 items in each collection are visible directly in the collection preview. To see more, the user must click to go to the collection page.  
Set your collection to **private** if you don't want it to be accessible via its URL (it will not be displayed on your profile/organization page). For organizations, private collections are only available to members of the organization.

> ### Sorting your collection(s) and their items

Reviewer 2: is it "sort", or "order"?

Author: I'm not sure, good question...

> ### Sorting your collection(s) and their items

Author: ```suggestion
### Ordering your collection(s) and their items
```

> You can use the sort handles in the collections list (on the left side of your collections page) to change the order of your collections (1). The first two collections will be directly visible on your profile/organization pages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the drag-n-drop handles in the collections list (on the left side of your collections page) to change the order of your collections (1). The first two collections will be directly visible on your profile/organization pages.
```
(not sure)

Author: ```suggestion
You can use the drag and drop handles in the collections list (on the left side of your collections page) to change the order of your collections (1). The first two collections will be directly visible on your profile/organization pages.
```

It's possible to add external repositories to your collections, not just your own.

## Collaborating on collections

Organization collections are a great way to build collections together. Any member of the organization can add, edit and remove items from the collection.
Use the **history feature** to keep track of who has edited the collection.

![Collection history](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/collections/collection-history.webp)

## Collection options

### Collection visibility

![Collections on profiles](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/collections/collection-profile.webp)

**Public** collections appear at the top of your profile or organization page and can be viewed by anyone. The first 3 items in each collection are visible directly in the collection preview (1). To see more, the user must click to go to the collection page.

Set your collection to **private** if you don't want it to be accessible via its URL (it will not be displayed on your profile/organization page). For organizations, private collections are only available to members of the organization.

> ### Ordering your collection(s) and their items

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Ordering your collections and their items
```

You can use the drag and drop handles in the collections list (on the left side of your collections page) to change the order of your collections (1). The first two collections will be directly visible on your profile/organization pages.

You can also sort repositories within a collection by dragging the handles next to each item (2).

![Collections sort](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/collections/collection-sort.webp)

### Deleting items from the collection

> To delete an item from a collection, click the trash icon on the right in the when you hover over an item with your mouse (1).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To delete an item from a collection, click the trash icon in the menu that shows up on the right when you hover over an item (1).
```

Question: is there a different UI for mobile?

To delete the whole collection, click delete on the right-hand menu (2) - you'll need to confirm this action.

![Collection delete](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/collections/collection-delete.webp)

### Adding notes to collection's items

It's possible to add a note to any item in a collection to give it more context (for others, or as a reminder to yourself). You can add notes by clicking the pencil icon when you hover over an item with your mouse. Notes are plain text and don't support markdown, to keep things clean and simple. URLs in notes are converted into clickable links.

![Collection note](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/collections/collection-note.webp)

## Your feedback on collections

> We're working on improving the collections, so if you have any bugs, questions, or new features you'd like to see added, please post a message in the [dedicated discussion](https://huggingface.co/spaces/huggingface/HuggingDiscussions/discussions/12).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We're working on improving collections, so if you have any bugs, questions, or new features you'd like to see added, please post a message in the [dedicated discussion](https://huggingface.co/spaces/huggingface/HuggingDiscussions/discussions/12).
```
